<link rel='stylesheet' href='../assets/css/main.css'/>

[<< back to main index](../README.md) / [Time Series](README.md) 

Lab 5.2 : Generating Time Series Data
====================

### Overview
Time series data on C*

### Depends On 
[5.1-time-series-1](5.1-time-series-1.md)

### Run time
45 mins


## STEP 1: Generate Some Sensor Data
Use generator scripts to create some sensor data
```
    $   cd  cassandra-labs/generators
```

Inspect file `generate-sensor-data.py`.  
Run it and generate some data.
```
    $   python generate-sensor-data.py
```

This will generate a file named `sensor.data`.   
Inspect file `sensor.data` as follows
```
    $   head  sensor.data
    or
    $   less  sensor.data
```

## STEP 2 : Import Data
Import the data using cqlsh
```
    $   cqlsh -f sensor.data
```

Inspect table
```
    $  cqlsh

    cqlsh>   
        select * from sensors;
```

## BONUS LAB 1A : Generate Extra Data
Update the `generate-sensor-data.py` to generate `co_level` data.  
Generate co_level as a float between 0.1  to 0.7.  
Complete TODO 1 and TODO 2.

Hint 1 : look  at how temperature value is generated.  
Include co_level into the output.  

Hint 2 : Look around line 44 :
```
    logline = "INSERT INTO....
```

After modifying the file run the script to generate new set of data.
```
  $   python generate-sensor-data.py
```


## BONUS LAB 1B :  Re-import Data
Delete all data in `sensors` table.  
Hint : `truncate`  

Re-import new data
```
    $   cqlsh   -f sensor.data
```


## BONUS LAB 2 : Generate More Data
Edit the `generate-sensor-data.py` and generate more data, say 100,000.  Import the data in Cassandra and see how fast / slow the queries run 

How long does it take to import 100,000 entries?
Use  `time` command.
```
    $    time   cqlsh   -f sensor.data
```

While the import is happening,  open another terminal and run atop command.  And inspect the output  (look at CPU usage and disk usage)
```
    $  atop
```

(if atop is not installed, install it by doing...
```
    $    sudo yum install -y  atop
```
)